BEFORE THE ARRIVAL OF THE THIRD COUNTRY NATIONAL

1
	

Copy of a valid passport or other travel document, with a validity that covers at least the duration of the intended stay or at least 2 years from the date of submission of the application.

2
	

Birth certificate of the third-country national. (The third-country national must not be under twelve (12) years old nor over nineteen (19) years old except in cases where the attendance of a student exchange scheme or an educational project operated by an education establishment is also provided to people of older age).

3
	

In case the third-country national is a minor, a parental authorization or an equivalent document for the intended stay.

4
	

Evidence that during the stay the third-country national will have sufficient resources to cover the cost of living and the repatriating costs or a relevant certificate of financial commitment by the education establishment which manage the pupil exchange scheme.

5
	

Registration letter by a secondary education establishment.

6
	

Certification that the third-country national will participate in a recognized, state or regional program of education in the context of a pupil exchange scheme or educational project operated by an education establishment in accordance with national law or administrative practice of the Cypriot authorities.

7
	

Certification that the education establishment or a third party accepts responsibility for the third-country national throughout the stay in the territory of Cyprus, in particular as regards study costs.

8
	

Certification that the third-country national will be accommodated throughout the stay in the territory of Cyprus by a family or in a special accommodation facility within the education establishment or in any other facility meeting the conditions set by the national law and selected in accordance with the rules of the pupil exchange scheme or educational project in which the third-country national is participating.

9
	

Original Certificate of a clear Criminal Record from the country of origin (if the third-country national is residing in a country other than the country of origin, the certificate may be issued from the country of residence).

10
	

Original medical examinations for Hepatitis B and C, AIDS/HIV, Syphilis and report of chest X-ray for Tuberculosis from the country of origin.

 

AFTER THE ARRIVAL OF THE THIRD COUNTRY NATIONAL

11
	

Οriginal medical examinations for Hepatitis B and C, AIDS/HIV, Syphilis and report of chest X-ray for Tuberculosis from a public or private hospital of Cyprus stamped by a doctor. 

12
	

Copy of the passport’s or other travel document’s page with a stamp that shows the last arrival in Cyprus.

13
	

Certificate of Health Insurance for medical care that covers inpatient and outpatient care and transportation of corpse (Plan A).

14
	

Original entry permit (M70)